An Organized collection of relevant Data.
DBMS -> software to manage database.

Types of DB -> Graph DBs, Object DBs, Document DBs(Mongo DB), Relational DB.

RDBMS -> data is structured in a table format with rows and columns.
key -> a unique column value a row which uniquely identifies rows in a table.

primary key -> a key with single attribute.
candidate key -> multiple attributes uniquely indentifies a row.
superkey -> adding other attrbutes to the candidate key.
surrogate key -> sort of temp key like serial number(1, 2, 3 etc.)
composite key -> primary key consists of more than one attribute.

We need to define relationships to connect one or more tables.

3 types of relationships:-
1. one-to-one -> It is used to create a relationship between two tables
   in which a single row of the first table can only be related 
   to one and only one records of a second table. Similarly, 
   the row of a second table can also be related to anyone row of the first table.
   Not used frequently. 
2. many-to-one -> It is used to create a relationship between 
   two tables. Any single rows of the first table can be related 
   to one or more rows of the second tables, but the rows of second
   tables can only relate to the only row in the first table. 
   It is also known as a many to one relationship. eg:- one customer can like many dishes or one dish can be liked by many customers.
3. many-to-many -> Each record of the first table can relate to any 
   records (or no records) in the second table.

Transaction -> A set of operations that must all be completed. 
For eg:- transferring money between bank accounts. If one operation is unsuccessful then
all operations will be reverted to their original state.

Transaction must be Atomic, Consistent, Isolated, Durable.

Atomic -> It means if any operation is performed on the data, 
        either it should be performed or executed completely or should not 
        be executed at all.
Consistent -> In DBMS, the integrity of the data should be maintained, 
        which means if a change in the database is made, it should remain 
        preserved always.
Isolated -> It means if two operations are being performed on two different 
        databases, they may not affect the value of one another.
Durability -> In DBMS, the term durability ensures that the data after the 
        successful execution of the operation becomes permanent in the database.

ACID requirements are handled by DBMS software.

Each fields has a datatype in a DB. Eg:- String -> VARCHAR(variable length), CHAR(fixed length).
Eg: -VARCHAR(200) can contain at max 200 characters
Date & Times -> DATETIME.
Numbers -> DECIMAL(3, 2) -> 123.56, INT(5).
NULL -> to indicate if a value is missing.
We usually use INT(6) for surrogate keys(tells the DB to autoincrement it if new row is inserted.) but for security reasons many people use UUID
(Universally Unique Identifier) which is much longer and therefore more difficult ot guess.

A table consists info about single entity and create relationships between table if needed.

Referential Integrity -> DBs are aware of relationships and won't allow a user to 
modify data in a way that violate those relationships. It helps us to 
maintain consistency of the DB.
Eg-> If we enter a record which has a foriegn key and that forign key doen't exixt in it's own table
then this record will be rejected. 
Same case in deletion.